.specify/specs/021-ui-integration/plan.md, before:

# Implementation Plan: UI Integration for Sidebar Icon and Panel Placement

**Branch**: `021-ui-integration` | **Date**: 2025-11-11 | **Spec**: [spec.md](./spec.md)
**Input**: Feature specification from `/specs/021-ui-integration/spec.md`

**Note**: This template is filled in by the `/speckit.plan` command. See `.specify/templates/commands/plan.md` for the execution workflow.

## Summary

This feature implements UI integration for the TerminAI extension by adding a sidebar icon for quick access and positioning the TerminAI interface in the same panel area as other VS Code default panels (PROBLEMS, OUTPUT, TERMINAL). The implementation involves registering a custom view container in the VS Code activity bar, adding an icon for easy identification, and integrating the TerminAI terminal interface into the panel area alongside existing VS Code panels.

The sidebar icon provides users with immediate access to the TerminAI extension without requiring them to navigate through menus or use keyboard shortcuts. The panel placement ensures that the TerminAI interface follows VS Code conventions and integrates seamlessly with the existing user interface, allowing users to switch between different panels (PROBLEMS, OUTPUT, TERMINAL, TerminAI) using familiar tab navigation.

## Technical Context

**Language/Version**: TypeScript (Node.js 18+)  
**Primary Dependencies**: VS Code Extension API, TerminAI Terminal components  
**Storage**: UI state persistence using VS Code's built-in state management  
**Testing**: Mocha/Chai for unit tests, manual testing for integration  
**Target Platform**: VS Code extension running on Windows, macOS, and Linux  
**Project Type**: Single project (VS Code extension)  
**Performance Goals**: Icon click response < 100ms, panel switch < 50ms  
**Constraints**: Must follow VS Code UI guidelines, maintain compatibility with existing features  
**Scale/Scope**: Single user, single extension instance per VS Code window

## Constitution Check

*GATE: Must pass before Phase 0 research. Re-check after Phase 1 design.*

Based on the project constitution, this feature complies with all guidelines:
- Uses TypeScript as primary language
- Follows VS Code extension development patterns
- Integrates with existing TerminAI terminal architecture
- Maintains security by running locally without external dependencies
- Follows established testing practices
- Adheres to VS Code UI/UX guidelines

## Project Structure

### Documentation (this feature)

```text
specs/021-ui-integration/
├── plan.md              # This file (/speckit.plan command output)
├── research.md          # Phase 0 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── data-model.md        # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── quickstart.md        # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── contracts/           # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
└── tasks.md             # Phase 2 output (/speckit.tasks command - NOT created by /speckit.plan)
```

### Source Code (repository root)

```text
src/
├── extension.ts         # Extension entry point - register UI components
├── ui/
│   ├── sidebarIconManager.ts    # Manages sidebar icon registration and display
│   ├── panelIntegrationManager.ts  # Handles panel integration with VS Code
│   ├── uiStateManager.ts        # Manages UI state persistence
│   ├── themeAdapterManager.ts   # Adapts UI elements to different themes
│   └── accessibilityManager.ts  # Ensures accessibility compliance
└── views/
    └── terminaiPanelView.ts     # TerminAI panel view implementation

tests/
├── unit/                # Unit tests for individual components
│   ├── sidebarIconManager.test.ts
│   ├── panelIntegrationManager.test.ts
│   ├── uiStateManager.test.ts
│   ├── themeAdapterManager.test.ts
│   └── accessibilityManager.test.ts
└── integration/         # Integration tests for complete workflows
    └── uiIntegration.test.ts
```

**Structure Decision**: Single project structure as this is a VS Code extension with integrated components. The UI implementation is organized in a dedicated ui directory to separate UI logic from core terminal functionality, with views in a separate directory for panel-specific implementations.

## Complexity Tracking

> **Fill ONLY if Constitution Check has violations that must be justified**

No constitutional violations identified. The feature follows established patterns for VS Code extensions and integrates properly with the existing TerminAI terminal architecture.

Commit message:

feat: Complete Chrome session persistence implementation and test coverage improvements
- Finalize Chrome user data directory configuration to ~/.terminail/chrome_data
- Add comprehensive test coverage for Chrome session persistence
- Update integration and unit tests for terminailManager
- Add new e2e test scripts for automatic terminail functionality
- Improve documentation with terminail usage guides
- Fix line ending warnings across test files

.specify/specs/021-ui-integration/plan.md, after:

# Implementation Plan: UI Integration for Sidebar Icon and Panel Placement

**Branch**: `021-ui-integration` | **Date**: 2025-11-11 | **Spec**: [spec.md](./spec.md)
**Input**: Feature specification from `/specs/021-ui-integration/spec.md`

**Note**: This template is filled in by the `/speckit.plan` command. See `.specify/templates/commands/plan.md` for the execution workflow.

## Summary

This feature implements UI integration for the Terminail extension by adding a sidebar icon for quick access and positioning the Terminail interface in the same panel area as other VS Code default panels (PROBLEMS, OUTPUT, TERMINAL). The implementation involves registering a custom view container in the VS Code activity bar, adding an icon for easy identification, and integrating the Terminail terminal interface into the panel area alongside existing VS Code panels.

The sidebar icon provides users with immediate access to the Terminail extension without requiring them to navigate through menus or use keyboard shortcuts. The panel placement ensures that the Terminail interface follows VS Code conventions and integrates seamlessly with the existing user interface, allowing users to switch between different panels (PROBLEMS, OUTPUT, TERMINAL, Terminail) using familiar tab navigation.

## Technical Context

**Language/Version**: TypeScript (Node.js 18+)  
**Primary Dependencies**: VS Code Extension API, Terminail Terminal components  
**Storage**: UI state persistence using VS Code's built-in state management  
**Testing**: Mocha/Chai for unit tests, manual testing for integration  
**Target Platform**: VS Code extension running on Windows, macOS, and Linux  
**Project Type**: Single project (VS Code extension)  
**Performance Goals**: Icon click response < 100ms, panel switch < 50ms  
**Constraints**: Must follow VS Code UI guidelines, maintain compatibility with existing features  
**Scale/Scope**: Single user, single extension instance per VS Code window

## Constitution Check

*GATE: Must pass before Phase 0 research. Re-check after Phase 1 design.*

Based on the project constitution, this feature complies with all guidelines:
- Uses TypeScript as primary language
- Follows VS Code extension development patterns
- Integrates with existing Terminail terminal architecture
- Maintains security by running locally without external dependencies
- Follows established testing practices
- Adheres to VS Code UI/UX guidelines

## Project Structure

### Documentation (this feature)

```text
specs/021-ui-integration/
├── plan.md              # This file (/speckit.plan command output)
├── research.md          # Phase 0 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── data-model.md        # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── quickstart.md        # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── contracts/           # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
└── tasks.md             # Phase 2 output (/speckit.tasks command - NOT created by /speckit.plan)
```

### Source Code (repository root)

```text
src/
├── extension.ts         # Extension entry point - register UI components
├── ui/
│   ├── sidebarIconManager.ts    # Manages sidebar icon registration and display
│   ├── panelIntegrationManager.ts  # Handles panel integration with VS Code
│   ├── uiStateManager.ts        # Manages UI state persistence
│   ├── themeAdapterManager.ts   # Adapts UI elements to different themes
│   └── accessibilityManager.ts  # Ensures accessibility compliance
└── views/
    └── terminailPanelView.ts     # Terminail panel view implementation

tests/
├── unit/                # Unit tests for individual components
│   ├── sidebarIconManager.test.ts
│   ├── panelIntegrationManager.test.ts
│   ├── uiStateManager.test.ts
│   ├── themeAdapterManager.test.ts
│   └── accessibilityManager.test.ts
└── integration/         # Integration tests for complete workflows
    └── uiIntegration.test.ts
```

**Structure Decision**: Single project structure as this is a VS Code extension with integrated components. The UI implementation is organized in a dedicated ui directory to separate UI logic from core terminal functionality, with views in a separate directory for panel-specific implementations.

## Complexity Tracking

> **Fill ONLY if Constitution Check has violations that must be justified**

No constitutional violations identified. The feature follows established patterns for VS Code extensions and integrates properly with the existing Terminail terminal architecture.
