.specify/specs/003-terminai-directory/plan.md, before:

# Implementation Plan: TerminAI Configuration Directory

**Branch**: `003-terminai-directory` | **Date**: 2025-11-11 | **Spec**: [spec.md](./spec.md)
**Input**: Feature specification from `/specs/003-terminai-directory/spec.md`

**Note**: This template is filled in by the `/speckit.plan` command. See `.specify/templates/commands/plan.md` for the execution workflow.

## Summary

This feature implements automatic initialization of a `.terminai` directory in the root of the VS Code workspace when the TerminAI extension is opened. The directory stores various configuration information, created file information, and user command history records. This provides a centralized location for all TerminAI-related data persistence, ensuring that user preferences, settings, and interaction history are maintained across sessions.

The implementation involves creating a directory manager that handles the creation and maintenance of the `.terminai` directory, along with specialized managers for configuration, history, and file tracking. The feature must handle cross-platform differences, permission issues, and error conditions gracefully.

## Technical Context

**Language/Version**: TypeScript (Node.js 18+)  
**Primary Dependencies**: VS Code Extension API, Node.js fs module, path module  
**Storage**: File system (JSON files in `.terminai` directory)  
**Testing**: Mocha/Chai for unit tests, manual testing for integration  
**Target Platform**: VS Code extension running on Windows, macOS, and Linux  
**Project Type**: Single project (VS Code extension)  
**Performance Goals**: Directory creation < 1 second, file operations < 100ms  
**Constraints**: Requires write permissions in workspace directory  
**Scale/Scope**: Single user, single workspace instance

## Constitution Check

*GATE: Must pass before Phase 0 research. Re-check after Phase 1 design.*

Based on the project constitution, this feature complies with all guidelines:
- Uses TypeScript as primary language
- Follows VS Code extension development patterns
- Maintains data privacy by keeping information local to user workspace
- Follows established testing practices
- Handles errors gracefully with user-friendly messages

## Project Structure

### Documentation (this feature)

```text
specs/003-terminai-directory/
├── plan.md              # This file (/speckit.plan command output)
├── research.md          # Phase 0 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── data-model.md        # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── quickstart.md        # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── contracts/           # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
└── tasks.md             # Phase 2 output (/speckit.tasks command - NOT created by /speckit.plan)
```

### Source Code (repository root)

```text
src/
├── extension.ts         # Extension entry point
├── terminaiDirectoryManager.ts  # Main directory management component
├── configurationManager.ts      # Configuration handling
├── historyManager.ts            # Command history management
├── fileManager.ts               # Created file tracking
└── utils/                       # Utility functions
    ├── pathUtils.ts             # Path handling utilities
    └── fileUtils.ts             # File operation utilities

tests/
├── unit/                        # Unit tests for individual components
│   ├── terminaiDirectoryManager.test.ts
│   ├── configurationManager.test.ts
│   ├── historyManager.test.ts
│   └── fileManager.test.ts
└── integration/                 # Integration tests for complete workflows
    ├── directoryInitialization.test.ts
    └── dataPersistence.test.ts
```

**Structure Decision**: Single project structure as this is a VS Code extension with integrated components. The modular approach separates concerns while maintaining simplicity.

## Complexity Tracking

> **Fill ONLY if Constitution Check has violations that must be justified**

No constitutional violations identified. The feature follows established patterns for VS Code extensions and maintains user data privacy by storing information locally.

Commit message:

feat: Complete Chrome session persistence implementation and test coverage improvements
- Finalize Chrome user data directory configuration to ~/.terminail/chrome_data
- Add comprehensive test coverage for Chrome session persistence
- Update integration and unit tests for terminailManager
- Add new e2e test scripts for automatic terminail functionality
- Improve documentation with terminail usage guides
- Fix line ending warnings across test files

.specify/specs/003-terminai-directory/plan.md, after:

# Implementation Plan: Terminail Configuration Directory

**Branch**: `003-terminail-directory` | **Date**: 2025-11-11 | **Spec**: [spec.md](./spec.md)
**Input**: Feature specification from `/specs/003-terminail-directory/spec.md`

**Note**: This template is filled in by the `/speckit.plan` command. See `.specify/templates/commands/plan.md` for the execution workflow.

## Summary

This feature implements automatic initialization of a `.terminail` directory in the root of the VS Code workspace when the Terminail extension is opened. The directory stores various configuration information, created file information, and user command history records. This provides a centralized location for all Terminail-related data persistence, ensuring that user preferences, settings, and interaction history are maintained across sessions.

The implementation involves creating a directory manager that handles the creation and maintenance of the `.terminail` directory, along with specialized managers for configuration, history, and file tracking. The feature must handle cross-platform differences, permission issues, and error conditions gracefully.

## Technical Context

**Language/Version**: TypeScript (Node.js 18+)  
**Primary Dependencies**: VS Code Extension API, Node.js fs module, path module  
**Storage**: File system (JSON files in `.terminail` directory)  
**Testing**: Mocha/Chai for unit tests, manual testing for integration  
**Target Platform**: VS Code extension running on Windows, macOS, and Linux  
**Project Type**: Single project (VS Code extension)  
**Performance Goals**: Directory creation < 1 second, file operations < 100ms  
**Constraints**: Requires write permissions in workspace directory  
**Scale/Scope**: Single user, single workspace instance

## Constitution Check

*GATE: Must pass before Phase 0 research. Re-check after Phase 1 design.*

Based on the project constitution, this feature complies with all guidelines:
- Uses TypeScript as primary language
- Follows VS Code extension development patterns
- Maintains data privacy by keeping information local to user workspace
- Follows established testing practices
- Handles errors gracefully with user-friendly messages

## Project Structure

### Documentation (this feature)

```text
specs/003-terminail-directory/
├── plan.md              # This file (/speckit.plan command output)
├── research.md          # Phase 0 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── data-model.md        # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── quickstart.md        # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
├── contracts/           # Phase 1 output (/speckit.plan command)
└── tasks.md             # Phase 2 output (/speckit.tasks command - NOT created by /speckit.plan)
```

### Source Code (repository root)

```text
src/
├── extension.ts         # Extension entry point
├── terminailDirectoryManager.ts  # Main directory management component
├── configurationManager.ts      # Configuration handling
├── historyManager.ts            # Command history management
├── fileManager.ts               # Created file tracking
└── utils/                       # Utility functions
    ├── pathUtils.ts             # Path handling utilities
    └── fileUtils.ts             # File operation utilities

tests/
├── unit/                        # Unit tests for individual components
│   ├── terminailDirectoryManager.test.ts
│   ├── configurationManager.test.ts
│   ├── historyManager.test.ts
│   └── fileManager.test.ts
└── integration/                 # Integration tests for complete workflows
    ├── directoryInitialization.test.ts
    └── dataPersistence.test.ts
```

**Structure Decision**: Single project structure as this is a VS Code extension with integrated components. The modular approach separates concerns while maintaining simplicity.

## Complexity Tracking

> **Fill ONLY if Constitution Check has violations that must be justified**

No constitutional violations identified. The feature follows established patterns for VS Code extensions and maintains user data privacy by storing information locally.
